("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(light, lively music)
(grunting)
- Why, you!
(arrow thwacks)
- [Narrator] Days
turned into weeks
as Mattis and his
men tried to chase
Borka and his robbers from
the north side of the fort.
The autumn woods fell silent
as the weather changed
and winter arrived.
No robbers, and
not a sign of Birk,
no matter how hard Ronja looked.
(breathing heavily)
(footsteps thudding)
- Good morning, Turre.
Wow!
More beautiful than I
could have imagined.
An ice forest. (gasps)
(Turre sneezes)
(uplifting trumpet music)
(Tjegge sneezes)
(robbers grunting)
- Look at your face.
You'd think you were
digging a grave.
- That's right, a
grave for you, old man.
Ready for it?
(laughing)
(snow crunching)
(Sturkas exclaims)
(Noddle-Pete cackles)
- Stop lying about.
There's too much work to do.
- I know.
But thank you for the reminder.
And remind me to
get you back later.
- All we have to eat are pickled
vegetables and salted meat.
It's so cold, we can barely
even do our robbing jobs.
Day after day, all there is
to do is (grunts) shovel snow.
(sighs heavily)
(Noddle-Pete sighs mockingly)
(energetic, upbeat music)
- It looks good.
You should be able to
wear this for a while.
(Ronja laughs)
- Wonderful!
I love them!
- Take good care of them.
- I will, I promise.
(door creaks and slams)
(Ronja laughing)
- [Ronja] Everyone!
Isn't the snow wonderful?
- [Pelje] Ronja!
(Pelje grunts)
(snow thuds)
(Ronja exclaims)
(Pelje laughs)
(Pelje whistles)
- Hey, Pelje, come down here.
(Pelje laughs)
- It'll take more than
that to knock me down.
- All right. (grunts)
(Pelje exclaims)
(Pelje screams)
- Pelje!
(Pelje giggles)
(Ronja sighs in relief)
(Pelje sneezes)
(laughing)
(robbers laughing and grunting)
(Tjorm exclaims)
- Yes!
- You can't get me.
(laughing)
- Oh, leave me alone. (exclaims)
(Tjorm growls)
(Tjorm grunting)
- Ha.
(Tjorm exclaims in fear)
- I asked you to
clear away the snow,
not throw it all over the place.
(Noddle-Pete snickers)
(Lovis grunts)
(snow crunching)
(Sturkas grunting)
- I always draw the short straw.
- Oh yeah?
And who do you think's shoveling
snow to make you a path?
Ugh, there is no
job worse than this.
And how hard can it be
for you, with your nice
warm coat of pudgy fat,
to fetch some water?
- Pudgy fat?
Should I ever die like a
dog buried in the snow,
then I'll appear by your bed
as a ghost and haunt you.
- Tjorm as a ghost, eh?
(laughs) You wouldn't dare.
You'd be too afraid of yourself.
Boo! Ah! (laughs)
- Oh yeah?
Just you see, I'm
going to haunt you!
I will!
- [Sturkas] Ah, do as you wish.
- [Tjorm] I'll
haunt you tonight.
- [Sturkas] Shut up,
you're not even dead.
Yet.
- [Mattis] Ronja!
Up here!
- [Ronja] What are
you doing there?
- Come up here.
- Okay, be right there.
(Ronja laughs)
(wood clunking)
- Where did I put them?
- What are you looking for?
- You'll be cleaning
up that mess, not me.
Mattis, you better listen
to what I'm telling you.
(Mattis groans)
- Ah, here they are!
I used to ski with these
when I was your age.
(Ronja exclaims in delight)
(Ronja grunts)
(upbeat, jovial music)
(Ronja exclaims)
(Ronja screams)
(snow crunching)
(Ronja laughs)
(Ronja exclaims)
(upbeat, jovial music)
(robbers sigh)
- Ronja, how's it going?
- Great.
Really well.
(snow crunching)
- [Ronja] Clear that snow.
(Ronja exclaims gleefully)
(upbeat, jovial music)
(Jutis sneezes)
(snow crunching)
(Joen grunts)
- I'm not sure I should've
given Ronja those skis.
I really hope that
she's all right.
If something's happened to
her, I couldn't stand it.
- (Grunts) Will you
please stop moaning?
That child knows
what she's doing
and can take better care
of herself than any robber.
(Mattis sighs)
(Grunts) How often
do I have to tell you
she'll be just fine?
(Noddle-Pete snickers)
(Mattis grunts)
- [Ronja] I'm off now.
- You be careful.
- [Narrator] It didn't
sound like a warning,
just something you say.
She could take care of
herself, or so she thought,
but later, something happened,
and it was just as well
that Mattis didn't know.
(energetic, jovial music)
(Ronja exclaims excitedly)
(Ronja laughs)
(Ronja grunts)
(energetic, jovial music)
(panting)
- Surely there's a little
more time in the day.
The last one is
gonna be the best.
(Ronja grunting)
(screams excitedly)
(Ronja grunts)
(Ronja laughs)
Come on. (grunts)
Oh no.
(grunting)
(Rumphobs mumbling)
- Hey, Rumphobs aren't you?
I am so relieved you're not
a pack of those Gray Dwarves.
They are nasty.
And maybe you could help me.
After all, Rumphobs are
friendly and peaceful, right?
Silly, really, but
I've got my leg caught.
(Father Rumphobs grunting)
Huh?
- Woffor, did un
want to do that?
- [Sister and Uncle Rumphob]
Did un want to do that?
- Broke our roof,
woffor did un' do it.
- Did I? (gasps)
(branches creaking)
- Woffor did un broke our roof?
- Look, I didn't mean to.
My leg, it won't move.
Please, help me get my
leg out of this hole.
(Father Rumphob sighs)
- Why has woffor gone
and stuck in our roof?
- [Sister and Uncle Rumphob]
Did un gone an' do it?
- I'm sorry about your roof.
Help me free my leg,
and I'll go back home.
Please?
(gasps)
No, please wait.
Don't leave!
(grunting)
(breathing heavily)
(Rumphobs mumbling)
- [Kid Rumphob]
Missy, missy, oh, oh.
- [Father Rumphob]
See un's cradle.
- [Uncle Rumphob]
It's too small.
- Oh my, he hang good there.
- Sees un cradle.
Nasty ol' foot.
- [Kid Rumphob] Missy, missy.
- We mun have nasty
ol' foot in roof.
(grunting)
- [Kid Rumphob] She
goes, she swing, swing.
She go, she do go.
- [Rumphobs] She do go.
She swing, she swing, she go.
(grunting)
- [Uncle Rumphob] Do go, she go.
- [Kid Rumphob] The cradle,
the swing rockin' fine.
The cradle rockin' fine.
- Lil' baby, he be
rockin' just fine.
- She go, she swing.
(breathing heavily)
- [Narrator] Ronja knew
the most important thing
in Mattis' Forest: never
let yourself be frightened.
But right then, that
seemed impossible.
She was afraid.
Afraid that she
couldn't free herself.
Afraid that she would freeze
to death this very night.
Afraid she would never
see her family again.
- Oh, that sky.
Looks like snow.
(upbeat, jovial music)
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter.
"The Vow to be
Brother and Sister".
Don't miss it.
(light, lively music)